# Entry 2: Deciding on my topic
##### 11/3/25

## The process of getting into my chosen topic: Dental Health
  Throughout the time of researching software and hardware technologies for my topic, dental hygiene, I discovered more about dental radiography and got to learn what the stuff your dental hygienists use. I was really curious about why they always used this chewy plastic flat cube paper, and they told me to stay still, and they would scan that pose and would go through every part of my teeth. I soon discovered on this website https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diagnostics/11199-dental-x-rays?utm_source= that this process of dental radiograph is where they use a bite chewing tab that can also be a sensor holder to keep the digital sensor ready to use. And with those scans they receive and then put in their computers, they can use them to detect cavities or bone loss. I don't know about you, but that sounds really cool. But the part of staying still uncomfortably with this plastic thing in your teeth isn't, haha! What's great is that this way of dental radiography is good since it's the top ones who use low radiation. Ok, now aside from its hardware technologies, let's get into software. So during my research in dental software, I found a software called **Dentrix**. I looked into their website https://www.henryscheinone.com/products/dentrix-ascend/?utm_source=capterra&utm_medium=ppc&utm_campaign=dtxa-promo-capterra&tname=2025-08-digital-ad-dtxa-promo-capterra&gdmcid=f6992493-fa0a-43d5-8dbc-5ad0acf7c740 and it's known to be designed to streamline administrative and clinical workflows in a dental office. So basically it helps a dental clinic keep order and helps manage everything. It helps them access their patients' information like insurance coverage details, changes and etc, making their jobs easier. This is a good software in my opinion because it helps them perform their job better by having Dentrix help them be organized and know what to do. Like an app that tells you what things to do, and it has quick accessibility to get information.

## EDP (Engineering Design Process)
Well, I am currently in the second stage of my engineering design process of researching to help people know more about the technology that exists in the dental field. So during this stage I'm in, I think it's great to go in depth into the technologies that are used every time we go to the dentist, and we are there wondering what they are. Not only that, but research the other different types of software and hardware technologies used in everyday dental clinic life.

# Skills!
Ok, so the skills I've learned working on this blog are time management and authenticity. Ok, first let's talk about time management. So I developed this skill when I was researching software and hardware technologies. I was focusing on researching stuff in the dental field that wasn't really important, like electric tooth cleaners and common stuff, but what I needed to focus on was about **technologies** that people did not know. Which is the problem I'm going to build towards that solution. So I learned that first I should prioritize and focus on what's important and get it done. And then, in my free time, I can check the low priorities! Now let's get into authenticity. During my research on Google, I saw these websites that weren't clearly answering my search. I was looking for when I wrote it. What was frustrating was that it was hard to tell if they were legit or not. So what I did was I checked if they were verified clinics and organizations, and that's how I got to collecting my information more confidently.

# Summary 
So now, overall, I'm more confident and excited about learning about my topic than in the past. Since I love learning about topics in a deep way that I can show or teach to someone, and thanks to the skills I also developed during this process. So I really am 100% looking forward to this!

  
[Previous](entry01.md) | [Next](entry03.md)

[Home](../README.md)
